One last shape that i would like
to introduce to you, is the arc
shape. It's just a segment of a circle, of the
circle line that we can draw and this one is a
little bit more complicated than the other
ones. We have the arc command and now we have
a couple of parameters. First of course the x
and the y value, so where should our circle,
the center of our circle, be located. Then we
define the width and the height of our circle.
Obviously you could also use different parameters
to create an ellipse instead of a circle.
And now it gets interesting, because now we need
to define what the start and the end angle is of
the line that we want to draw. There's two ways
of defining this so the default values of defining
angles in p5.js is radians and radians is also
the default value for most other applications.
To do this, we have a little helper Math.PI, this
holds the PI value and 2 times PI is 360 degrees,
so one full circle, so one PI is 180 degrees. To
convert this into degrees, we can simply divide
it by 180 and multiply it by the angle that we
want as an outcome. This is now the start angle
and now we need the end angle, so we make
it 180 so we have 90 degrees, a quarter
circle. And if i save this now, we have a
quarter circle and what you will notice is,
most people think that zero degrees is at the top,
but it's actually not at the top but it is at the
right side, so if i change this to zero you will
see that the circle actually starts on the right.
okay. so in p5.js we have an option to
switch from radians to degrees to make
it a little bit easier and we have to write
less code which is nice. For this there is the
angleMode command and here we can
say we want to work in DEGREES
And now if i would save it, now it would look not
right, so what we can do now is we can change,
we can remove the first bit and just use angle
in degrees directly. Now we have the same
arc again. And there is one last option. An
optional one, by default the arc function
uses an open arc. The end and start point are
not connected. There are two different ways of
doing this. There's a PIE version which creates
a pie chart. If i change the second angle to 90
we can now see that we have kind of a pie chart
and we now could do multiple PI elements and
arcs and create a pie chart from it. There's
also a last one which is called the CHORD
And here what simply is happening,
the start and the end point are simply
being connected. That's it. If i
change for example the 90 to 270
we can see that now the upper and
the right corner are being connected